.\" Manpage for ustreamer-dump.
.\" Open an issue or pull request to https://github.com/pikvm/ustreamer to correct errors or typos
.TH USTREAMER-DUMP 1 "version 5.40" "January 2021"

.SH NAME
ustreamer-dump \- Dump uStreamer's memory sink to file

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B ustreamer-dump
.RI [OPTIONS]

.SH DESCRIPTION
µStreamer-dump (\fBustreamer-dump\fP) writes a local stream from ustreamer to a file or redirect it to other utilities (such as \fBffmpeg\fR).

.SH USAGE
\fBustreamer\fR requires at least the \fB\-\-sink\fR option to operate.

To output ustreamers sink "test" to ffmpeg, and into a file called test.mp4:

\fBustreamer-dump \e\fR
.RS
\fB\-\-sink=test \e\fR # Use ustreamer sink "test"
.nf
\fB\-\-output\ \- \e\fR # Output to stdout
\fB|\ ffmpeg\ \-use_wallclock_as_timestamps\ 1\ \-i\ pipe:\ \-c:v\ libx264\ test\.mp4\fR

.SH OPTIONS
.SS "Sink options"
.TP
.BR \-s ", " \-\-sink\ \fIname
Memory sink ID. No default.
.TP
.BR \-t ", " \-\-sink\-timeout\ \fIsec
Timeout for the upcoming frame. Default: 1.
.TP
.BR \-o ", " \-\-output\ \fIfilename
Filename to dump output to. Use '-' for stdout. Default: just consume the sink.
.TP
.BR \-j ", " \-\-output-json
Format output as JSON. Required option --output. Default: disabled.
.TP
.BR \-c ", " \-\-count\ \fIN
Limit the number of frames. Default: 0 (infinite).
.TP
.BR \-i ", "\-\-interval\ \fIsec
Delay between reading frames (float). Default: 0.
.TP
.BR \-k ", " \-\-key\-required
Request keyframe from the sink. Default: disabled.

.SS "Logging options"
.TP
.BR \-\-log\-level\ \fIN
Verbosity level of messages from 0 (info) to 3 (debug). Enabling debugging messages can slow down the program.
Available levels: 0 (info), 1 (performance), 2 (verbose), 3 (debug).
Default: 0.
.TP
.BR \-\-perf
Enable performance messages (same as \-\-log\-level=1). Default: disabled.
.TP
.BR \-\-verbose
Enable verbose messages and lower (same as \-\-log\-level=2). Default: disabled.
.TP
.BR \-\-debug
Enable debug messages and lower (same as \-\-log\-level=3). Default: disabled.
.TP
.BR \-\-force\-log\-colors
Force color logging. Default: colored if stderr is a TTY.
.TP
.BR \-\-no\-log\-colors
Disable color logging. Default: ditto.

.SS "Help options"
.TP
.BR \-h ", " \-\-help
Print this text and exit.
.TP
.BR \-v ", " \-\-version
Print version and exit.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR ustreamer (1)

.SH BUGS
Please file any bugs and issues at \fIhttps://github.com/pikvm/ustreamer/issues\fR

.SH AUTHOR
Maxim Devaev <mdevaev@gmail.com>

.SH HOMEPAGE
\fIhttps://pikvm.org/\fR

.SH COPYRIGHT
GNU General Public License v3.0
